---
title: "Arcjet bot protection"
description: "Arcjet bot protection allows you to manage traffic by automated clients and bots."
prev: false
---

import WhatIsArcjet from "/src/components/WhatIsArcjet.astro";
import Comments from "/src/components/Comments.astro";

Arcjet bot detection allows you to manage traffic by automated clients and bots.

<WhatIsArcjet />

## Why configure bot protection?

Bots can be good (such as search engine crawlers or monitoring agents) or bad
(such as scrapers or automated scripts). You might also want to allow automated
clients access to your API (even though they might seem like bots), but deny
access to a signup form. In an ideal world, all bots would respect the
`robots.txt` file, but unfortunately this is not always the case. Arcjet allows
you to configure bot protection so you can decide which bots are allowed.

## Bot detection realities

It's impossible to create a system that can block all bots. Good bots identify
themselves in a consistent manner so it is straightforward to identify them, but
those are often not the bots you wish to block! Bad bots pretend to be real
clients and use various mechanisms to evade bot detection.

Arcjet's bot protect works best when combined with [rate
limiting](/rate-limiting/concepts). This allows you to block clients that are
causing problems whilst minimizing the impact on real users. See [an example of
this in the Node.js SDK reference](/reference/nodejs#multiple-rules).

Arcjet will help you reduce bot traffic and give you more control over which
requests reach your application, but it's important to understand that it's not
possible to achieve 100% accuracy.

## Blocking based on fingerprint

If Arcjet detects bot traffic, it will block further traffic based on a
[fingerprint of the client](/architecture#fingerprinting), which includes the IP
address. This could temporarily block traffic from legitimate clients using the
same IP address. Although this trade-off might affect a small number users on
shared networks, we are constantly improving our systems to minimize
false-positives while ensuring overall security.

<Comments />
