---
title: "Arcjet limitations"
description: "Things to be aware of and limitations with Arcjet."
---

import Comments from "/src/components/Comments.astro";

No security product is perfect and Arcjet is no exception. Here are some things
to be aware of when building your application with Arcjet.

## Rate limits are scoped per region

Rate limits are currently enforced per region. The SDK automatically picks the
closest region to where your application is running, but if your code runs in
multiple locations then the rate limits will be enforced separately.

This is generally not a problem if you are using rate limits based on IP address
because a client will typically always connect to the same region. However, if
you are using rate limits based on a user's account ID or an API key then you
should be aware of this limitation.

We are working on an option to sync rate limits globally.

## Your application will receive traffic

Network based security products block traffic before it hits your application.
This works well for high volume network attacks so those are best handled by the
DDoS protection built into your hosting platform.

Arcjet is designed to integrate into your application and understand more about
the request context. This allows the right rules to be applied and allows you to
customize the response based on the signals provided by Arcjet. You can also
show useful error messages rather than returning generic status codes.

For example, it is difficult for network based security products to distinguish
between a free user making excessive API calls vs your largest paying customer
performing important queries. Likewise, you may want to manually review users
signing up from behind a proxy who have disposable email addresses, but allow
those with business emails to sign up instantly.

We believe application context is critical and so this where Arcjet shines.
However, it also means that your application will receive more traffic than if
it were simply blocked on the network.

## Shield analysis does not use the request body

[Arcjet Shield](/shield/concepts) analysis is currently based on the request
headers and query parameters. To minimize false positives and achieve
low-latency responses, Shield analysis happens in the background on the Arcjet
platform after a request has been reported to our API. For [privacy](/privacy)
we do not send the request body to our API, so it cannot be used for analysis.

In the future we intend to support local request body analysis as part of
Shield.

<Comments />
